# Web-Camera-Motion-Detection-

Python

The project “Web Camera Motion Detection”, depicts the moving objects. So, when the video camera is on and it detects any movement in its frame, it notifies with a Text of- “Motion Detected” on the farme and contours it with a rectangular box. It also displays the current date and time and it saves the date and time of start and stop of motion in an Excel File using Pnada Library. It even saves the image with movements detected and date and time when they took place.

So, when the video camera is on, the while loop is always true. Now we have taken a range of 25 frames at a time. So, when f<25, we read the video and convert the coloured video to grayscale. Now whenever the 26 frame comes , we take the average of the first 25 frames. Now if the first frame is none, we take the current frame which is the gray frame. When it checks the second frame and if takes the difference between the first and the current frame. If the difference between the first frame and the current frame is less than 25 we get black pixels and if they are greater than 25 then we get black pixels. For this  the concept of threshold from cv2 is used. The threshold returns a tuple with 2 values. The first value is needed when we use other threshold methods. Threshold binary is used to access only the second value of threshold only, while is the frame it has returned. We use thresh frame to create white contours of white objects in the first frame. The method of dilate from cv2 is used to remove the black holes, i.e. we smooth threshold frame. We find the contours of the dilate frame. We first find teh contour and then draw. We find contour and store it in a tupple. We pass the frame we want to find the contour of. cv2.RETR_EXTERNAL is the method used to draw external contours of the image and cv2.chain_approx, is an approximation method open Cv will apply to retrieve the contour. This contour will be stored in cnts. Now we want to filter this contour as we want to keep contours within an area of 12000(kept using trial and error, as if we increase this value then pixels for small movements are not detected). Now a rectangle is drawn. If frames are more than 25, i.e. say 26th frame, then it repeats the process again, but now taking 26th frame as zero, and compares the average of the first 25 frames with the 26th frame. When python finds more pixels than 12000, then status is 1. The status list is an empty list and we want to append the status. We want to capture the time, the status changes from 0 to 1 or from 1 to 0. Thus we only capture the last two frames of the status list. We apply the condition if last 2 items are changing.We save alll the date and time using panda in an excel file. We want to iterate through the times list and append those values to panda list.
